SAQ

Secondary Union steps: 											{MOD}
	1- Initial hemorrhage
	2- Inflammatory phase
	3- Epithelial change
	4- Granulation tissue
	5- Wound contraction
	6- Presence of infection

Define stoke volume, End Systolic volume, End Diastolic volume:						{CVS}
	1- Stroke volume: Volume of pumped blood from left ventricle each cardiac cycle.
	2- End Systolic volume: Volume of blood in ventricles after contraction, or beginning of filling, typically the blood volume is at its lowest in this phase.
	3- End Diastolic volume: Volume of blood in ventricles after filling.

Shoulder joint blood supplies and its injuries:								{MSK}
	Blood supplies: anterior and posterior circumflex humeral, circumflex scapular and suprascapular artery
	
	1- Rotator cuff tendinitis 
	2- Supraspinatus tendon rupture
	3- Anterior-Inferior dislocation
	4- Posterior dislocation

Risk factors of venous thrombosis:									{MOD}
	1- Heart failure
	2- Immobilization
	3- Trauma
	4- Surgery
	5- Burns

Systemic consequence of acute inflammation: 								{MOD}
	1- Acute phase respone
	2- Fever
	3- Leukocytosis

Effect of histamine:											{MOD}
	1- Vascular dilation
	2- Increased vascular permeability

How membrane transporter mechanisms and ion channels contribute to the maintenence of ion and solute gradient across membranes and how these mechanisms regulate ph and cell volume?					{MR}
	1- Acidification can be opposed by expelling H+ outward and inward movement of HCO3-
	2- Alkalinization can be opposed by expelling HCO3- outward and inward movement of H+

Prostatitis classification:
	1- Acute bacterial prostatitis
	2- Chronic bacterial prostatitis
	3- CPPS
	4- Non-inflammatory CPPS
	5- Symptomatic inflammatory prostatitis

Gluteus maximus nerve supply:										{MSK}
	Ans/ Inferior gluteal nerve

What happens to resistance of blood flow if blood becomes more viscous:					{CVS}
	ANS/ More viscosity leads to more resistance

Describe anatomical position:										{MSK}
	1- body upright in vertical axis
	2- Legs and feet parallel
	3- Arms hanging by sides
	4- Palms and face directed forward

What are cytomorphology of cancer:
	1- Pleomorphism
	2- N/C high ratio
	3- Anisonucleosis
	4- Nuclear change
	5- Giant tumor cells

What factor involve in insulin resistance in pathologic effect:
	1- TNF & IL1

Define cubital fossa:
	Ans/ A triangular depression in front of elbow
		Contents:
			1- Terminal part of brachial artery
			2- Tendon of biceps muscle
			3- median nerve

		Boundaries:
			Laterally: Brachioradialis muscle
			Floor: Supinator and brachialis

Mention 4 outcomes of acute inflammation:
	1- Complete resolution
	2- Continued acute inflammation with chronic inflammation
	3- Chronic inflammation and fibrous repair
	4- Death

Enumerate symptoms of bladder outlet obstruction:
	1- Hesitency
	2- Urgency
	3- Sense of incomplete emptying
	4- Acute urinary retention
	5- Chronic urinary retention

Bioavailability is the fraction of administrated drug that reaches systemic circulation.

Define those terms: stable angina, unstable angina, variant angina, silent ischemia:
	1- Unstable angina: Chest pain that occurs at rest, caused by reduced blood flow to heart.
	2- Variant angina: Chest pain, caused by muscle spasms of coronary arteries, which temporarily reduce blood flow to the heart.
	3- Silent ischemia: Reduced blood flow to the heart without any signs or symptoms.
	4- Stable angina: Chest pain that occurs during emotional distress, caused by reduced blood flow, and is predictable.

Cellular change of apoptosis:
	1- Cellular breakdown and shrinkage
	2- Chromatin condensation and nuclear changes
	3- Membrane blebbing, which make apoptotic blebs which are then phagocytosed

Dif between benign and malignant tumors:
	1- Benign: Grow slowly, well differentiated, no invasion to surrounding tissues, spherical or ovoid in shape.
	2- Malignant: Grows fast, undifferentiated, invasive to surrounding tissues, irregular shape.

Describe connective tissue surrounding muscles:
	1- Endomysium: Very thin layer of reticular fibers
	2- Perimysium: Thin layer of CT that surround each fascicles
	3- Epimysium: External layer of irregular dense CT that sorround entire muscle.

List four conditions in granuloma:
	1- Crohn disease
	2- Tuberculosis
	3- Syphilis
	4- Leprosy

Sartorius muscle in innvervated by femoral nerve.

4 Type of tissue necrosis:
	1- Fat
	2- Gangrene
	3- Coagulative
	4- Liquifactive

Blood supply to the upper limb:
	1- Arm is supplied by brachial artery
	2- Forearm and hand is supplied by radial and ulnar arteries

What is granulation:
	Ans/ Granulation tissue is formed by proliferation of fibroblast and neovascularization, they have role in secondary healing.

List steps of neutrophil migration:
	1- Margination
	2- Rolling
	3- Adhesion
	4- Emigration

Neurological conditions that affect peripheral nervous system and cause peripheral hypotonia are:
	1- Muscular dystrophy
	2- Spinal muscular dystrophy
	3- Charcot marie tooth disease
	4- Myasthenua gravis

Role of carbohydrate on the membrane in terms of communication:
	Ans/ Locks onto proteins and prevents rotation (Flip-Flopping) of the proteins.

Motions of phospolipids in plasma membrane:
	1- Intra chain motion
	2- Fast axial rotation
	3- Fast lateral rotation
	4- Flip flops

Stages of bone healing:
	1- hematoma then inflammation
	2- Granulation tissue formation
	3- Soft callus
	4- hard callus
	5- Replacement of woven bone with lamelar bone
	6- Remodelling

Major cytokine involve in fibrosis is TGF-B.

Dif between syncope and seizure:
	Feature			Seizure		Syncope

	Aura			+		-
	Cyanosis		+		-
	Lateral tongue-biting	+		-/+
	Post-ictal delirium	+		-
	Post-ictal amnesia	+		-
	Post-ictal headache	+		-
	Rapid-recovery		-		+

What are the cauases of nausea and vomiting in kidney diseases:
	1- Renointestinal reflexes: [Because of pylorospasm]
	2- Organ relationships: [kidney is closely related to GIT organs]
	3- Peritoneal irritation: [Anterior surface of kidneys are covered by peritoneum]

Define pinocytosis, phagocytosis, receptor mediated endocytosis:
	1- Pinocytosis: endocytosis of vesicle which encloses a small volume of extracellular fluid with whatever solute in it.
	2- Phagocytosis: Cells engulf the toxic or particles entirely.
	3- Receptor mediated endocytosis: A hydrophilic surface when activated endocytosis occurs, as in some types of hormones.

Inhibitor of cAMP is phosphodiesterase.

Dif between metaplasia and dysplasia:
	1- Metaplasia refers to reversible change of cell type, this is due to a stimuli. if stimuli is no longer present, it will go back to normal, and is generally useful not bad.
	2- Dysplasia is abnormal growth and development of cells that leads to disorganization of tissue, this is cancerous and will not go back to normal if stimuli is unpresented.