SAQ

Enumerate 5 risk factors of hyperbillirubinemia:
	1- Maternal diabetes
	2- Race
	3- Polycythemia
	4- Male sex
	5- 21-trisomy

Enumerate 5 features of rickets:
	1- Frontal bossing
	2- Wide sutures
	3- Craniotabes
	4- Dental hypoplasia
	5- Bowing of legs

Enumerate 5 lab features of pathological hyperbillirubinemia:
	1- Family history of hemolytic diseases
	2- Pallor
	3- Hepatomegaly
	4- Lethargy
	5- Apnea, Bradycardia

Enumerate ligaments of vertebral column:
	1- Anterior longitudinal ligament
	2- Posterior longitudinal ligament
	3- Interspinous ligament
	4- Supraspinous ligament
	5- Ligamentum flavum

Mention distal row of carpals from lateral to medial:
	1- Trapezium
	2- Trapezoid
	3- Capitate
	4- Hammate

Enumerate hip abductor muscles:
	Primary: Gluteus medius, Gluteus minimus
	Secondary: Gluteus maximus

What is cubital fossa and its boundaries:
	Ans/ Triangular depression on anterior surface of elbow.
	Superior: Imaginary line connecting medial and lateral epicondyles.
	Medial: Pronator teres
	Lateral: Brachioradialis
	Floor: Supinator and brachialis
	Roof: Continuty of brachial and antebrachial fascia

What is femoral triangle and boundaries:
	Ans/ Triangular depression in upper part of medial aspect of thigh.
	Superior: Inguinal ligament
	Medial: Adductor longus
	Lateral: Sartorius
	Floor: Pectineus
	Roof: Skin and fascia of thigh

How are receptors classified:
	1- Receptors are classified according to the agonist they recognize.
	2- They are sub-classified according to different agonist of the same class, that they bind to.
	3- They are sub-classified according to affinity to antagonist.

Dif between hydrophobic and hydrophilic signaling mechanism:
	1- Hydrophilic molecules bind to cell membrane receptors, which leads to a series of reactions, activating the second messenger, doing the main molecule job.
	2- Hydrophobic molecules transport through the cell membrane and bind to intracellular receptors.

What is mechanism of cell volume regulation:
	Ans/ Cells excrete ions during swelling, and influxes ions during shrinkage.

Characterstics of ion channels:
	1- Channels differ in number and type of ions they pass in.
	2- Channels can be mechanically and/or electrically gated.

General mechanisms to maintaining [Ca2+]:
	1- Ca2+ influx across plasma membrane.
	2- Ca2+ release from rapidly releasable stores.
	3- Ca2+ release from non-rapidly releasable stores.

Write about membrane composition:
	Ans/ Cell membranes are mainly composed of phospholipid bilayer, which contains proteins embbeded in the membrane (Integral membranes), and surface proteins (peripheral membranes).

Drugs used to treat hypertension:
	Ans/ Angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors reduce bp by relaxing blood vessels. e.g./ enalapril, lisinopril

What is cardiac action potential:
	Ans/ An electrical signal which causes myocardial cells to contract properly, through a series of signal propagation.

Explain the 2 ways in which fluids flow:
	1- Laminar (Most common): is a flow type where adjacent fluids flow at the same velocity, leading to a smooth flowing.
	2- Turbulent: is a flow type where adjacent fluids flow at different velocities, leading to generation of sound, and chaotic movement.

Define endocardial cushion and looping of the heart:
	1- Endocardial cushion is a set of cells that contribute to formation of septa and valves.
	2- Looping of the heart is an early developmental process in which the heart bends and twists to establish the forming of a mature heart, making the proper alignment of atria and ventricles.

Define AV Canal and Septation of the heart:
	1- AV Canal: a crucial part of the developing heart, that connects the atria to ventricles.
	2- Septation: Dividing hearts into chambers.

Define vasomotor tone, reactive hyperemia, vasodilator metabolites:
	1- Vasomotor tone: Is the continous and partial constriction of blood vessels to control blood flow, controlled by sympathetic nervous system.
	2- Reactive hyperemia: Is the state where blood pressure increases due to blockage of arteries or ischemia, caused by too much metabolic byproducts and nutrient needs of cells.
	3- Vasodilator metabolites: metabolites that relaxes the blood vessels.

Causes of acute inflammation:
	1- Microbial infections
	2- Foreign bodies
	3- Hypersensitivity
	4- Tissue necrosis

Stages of inflammatory response:
	1- Recognition of injurious agent
	2- recruitment of leukocytes
	3- removal of agent
	4- regulation of the response
	5- Resolution

Sequential consequences that lead to hemostasis:
	1- ateriolar vasoconstriction
	2- primary hemostasis: formation of the platelet plug
	3- secondary hemostasis: depositon of fibrin
	4- clot stabilization and repair

What is chronic inflammation and how it occur:
	Ans/ A prolonged inflammation response. {weeks, months}
	It occurs in 3 ways:
		1- Took over an acute inflammation
		2- Arose de novo
		3- Arose alongside acute inflammation

What is persistent infection:
	Ans/ Its infections that cannot be eliminated easily, (viruses, fungi, parasites). they often lead to chronic inflammation.

Local complication of acute inflammation:
	1- Swelling
	2- Exudation
	3- Loss of fluid
	4- Pain or loss of function

Risk factors for atherosclerosis:
	1- Hypertension
	2- Smoking
	3- Diabetes
	4- Increasing age
	5- Male sex

What is hyperplasia with example:
	Ans/ Its the incrase in amount of parenchymal cells that cause organ to be enlarged.
		e.g: Hyper plasia of pregnant uterus